02-Oauth2/README.md, before:

# OAuth 2 Connect Playground

## Instructions to run locally

1. Open two terminals

2.  In the first terminal:
    1. Optionally, set the following environment variables according to your environment:
        - **`OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT`**: OpenTelemetry Collector gRPC endpoint for distributed tracing (optional).
        ```shell
        export OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT=<YOUR_OTEL_COLLECTOR_GRPC_ENDPOINT> # Default: http://localhost:4317
        ```
    2. Start the OAuth Playground backend REST API:
        ```shell
        cd 02-Oauth2/backend
        npm install
        npm start
        ```

3. In the second terminal:
    1. Optionally, set the following environment variables according to your Keycloak environment:
        - **`KC_URL`**: Keycloak server root URL.
        - **`INPUT_ISSUER`**: Keycloak server realm URL that issues OAuth tokens. This can also be updated on the OAuth Playground frontend UI.
        - **`OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT`**: OpenTelemetry Collector gRPC endpoint for distributed tracing (optional).
        ```shell
        export KC_URL=<YOUR_KEYCLOAK_SERVER_ROOT_URL> # Default: http://localhost:8080/
        export INPUT_ISSUER=<YOUR_KEYCLOAK_ISSUER_REALM_URL> # Default: http://localhost:8080/realms/demo
        export OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT=<YOUR_OTEL_COLLECTOR_GRPC_ENDPOINT> # Default: http://localhost:4317
        ```
    2. Start the OAuth Playground frontend:
        ```shell
        cd 02-Oauth2/frontend
        npm install
        npm start
        ```

4. Open the playground application at http://localhost:8000

    ![OAuth 2 Playground Application](../_images/oauth-playground-app.png)

    1. Load the OAuth 2.0 provider configuration by clicking on the button labelled **`Load OAuth 2.0 Provider Configuration`**
    2. Click on the button labeled **`2 - Authorization`**. 
    3. You can leave the **`client_id`** and **`scope`** values as they are, then click on the button labeled **`Send Authorization Request`**
    4. Now that the playground application has obtained an access token, try to invoke the REST API. Click on the button labeled **`3 - Invoke Service`**, then click on **`Invoke`**.
        >**NOTE**: The REST API will only grant access if the authenticated user has the **`oauth-backend:user`** client role and the access token **`aud`** claim is verified. **_Use access limitation by scope or client role assignment_**.

---

## Reset vs Logout

The playground provides two buttons to restart the flow:

| Aspect | Reset | Logout |
|--------|-------|--------|
| **Local State** | ✅ Clears localStorage | ✅ Clears localStorage |
| **Keycloak Session** | ❌ Keeps SSO session active | ✅ Terminates SSO session |
| **Browser Cookies** | ❌ Keeps Keycloak cookies | ✅ Keycloak clears its cookies |
| **Network Call** | ❌ None | ✅ Calls `end_session_endpoint` |

### When to Use Each

| Use Case | Button |
|----------|--------|
| Start over but stay logged in | **Reset** |
| Test the full login flow again | **Logout** |
| Switch to a different user | **Logout** |
| Clear UI state only | **Reset** |

### Behavior Difference

- **Reset**: App restarts at Discovery step. If you send a new authorization request, you will be **automatically logged in** (no password prompt) because the Keycloak SSO session is still active.

- **Logout**: App restarts at Discovery step. If you send a new authorization request, the **Keycloak login page appears** because the SSO session has been terminated.

>**NOTE**: To use the Logout feature with `id_token_hint`, make sure to include `openid` in the scope when sending the authorization request. This will return an `id_token` that is used for Single Logout.

Commit message:

feat: add comprehensive logging and split public/secured endpoints in OAuth playground
OAuth Backend:
- Add detailed token validation logging with timestamps
- Log issuer, audience, expiration, roles, and validation failures
- Add parseEnvVar() helper to support ${env.VAR:default} pattern
- Add KC_REALM environment variable support in keycloak.json
- Distinguish between public and secured endpoint logs
- Show specific denial reasons (expired, missing role, audience mismatch, etc.)

OAuth Frontend:
- Split /api/service into /api/service/public and /api/service/secured
- Update UI with separate buttons for public and secured endpoints
- Add timestamped logging for all proxy requests
- Display status icons (✓/✗) with HTTP status codes in responses

OIDC Frontend:
- Add timestamped logging for all endpoints
- Add logout proxy endpoint for distributed tracing
- Store id_token for proper Single Logout support

Documentation:
- Update OAuth README with KC_URL and KC_REALM env vars
- Update OAuth README  split endpoint instructions
- Add Reset vs Logout comparison section to OIDC README

All changes improve observability, user experience, and distributed tracing.

02-Oauth2/README.md, after:

# OAuth 2 Connect Playground

## Instructions to run locally

1. Open two terminals

2.  In the first terminal:
    1. Optionally, set the following environment variables according to your environment:
        - **`KC_URL`**: Keycloak server root URL (used by backend to validate token issuer).
        - **`KC_REALM`**: Keycloak realm name (used by backend to validate token issuer).
        - **`OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT`**: OpenTelemetry Collector gRPC endpoint for distributed tracing (optional).
        ```shell
        export KC_URL=<YOUR_KEYCLOAK_SERVER_ROOT_URL> # Default: http://localhost:8080/
        export KC_REALM=<YOUR_KEYCLOAK_REALM> # Default: demo
        export OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT=<YOUR_OTEL_COLLECTOR_GRPC_ENDPOINT> # Default: http://localhost:4317
        ```
    2. Start the OAuth Playground backend REST API:
        ```shell
        cd 02-Oauth2/backend
        npm install
        npm start
        ```

3. In the second terminal:
    1. Optionally, set the following environment variables according to your Keycloak environment:
        - **`KC_URL`**: Keycloak server root URL.
        - **`INPUT_ISSUER`**: Keycloak server realm URL that issues OAuth tokens. This can also be updated on the OAuth Playground frontend UI.
        - **`OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT`**: OpenTelemetry Collector gRPC endpoint for distributed tracing (optional).
        ```shell
        export KC_URL=<YOUR_KEYCLOAK_SERVER_ROOT_URL> # Default: http://localhost:8080/
        export INPUT_ISSUER=<YOUR_KEYCLOAK_ISSUER_REALM_URL> # Default: http://localhost:8080/realms/demo
        export OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT=<YOUR_OTEL_COLLECTOR_GRPC_ENDPOINT> # Default: http://localhost:4317
        ```
    2. Start the OAuth Playground frontend:
        ```shell
        cd 02-Oauth2/frontend
        npm install
        npm start
        ```

4. Open the playground application at http://localhost:8000

    ![OAuth 2 Playground Application](../_images/oauth-playground-app.png)

    1. Load the OAuth 2.0 provider configuration by clicking on the button labelled **`Load OAuth 2.0 Provider Configuration`**
    2. Click on the button labeled **`2 - Authorization`**. 
    3. You can leave the **`client_id`** and **`scope`** values as they are, then click on the button labeled **`Send Authorization Request`**
    4. Now that the playground application has obtained an access token, click on the button labeled **`3 - Invoke Service`** to test the backend REST API:

        - **Public Endpoint**: Click **`Invoke /public`** to call the public endpoint. This endpoint requires no authentication and should always return `✓ [200] Public message!`.

        - **Secured Endpoint**: Click **`Invoke /secured`** to call the secured endpoint. This endpoint requires a valid access token with the **`oauth-backend:user`** client role.
            - ✓ **Access Granted**: `✓ [200] Secret message!` - User has the required role
            - ✗ **Access Denied**: `✗ [403] Access denied` - User lacks the required role
            - ✗ **Unauthorized**: `✗ [401] Unauthorized` - No valid token provided

        >**NOTE**: The secured endpoint will only grant access if the authenticated user has the **`oauth-backend:user`** client role and the access token **`aud`** claim is verified. **_Use access limitation by scope or client role assignment_**.

---

## Reset vs Logout

The playground provides two buttons to restart the flow:

| Aspect | Reset | Logout |
|--------|-------|--------|
| **Local State** | ✅ Clears localStorage | ✅ Clears localStorage |
| **Keycloak Session** | ❌ Keeps SSO session active | ✅ Terminates SSO session |
| **Browser Cookies** | ❌ Keeps Keycloak cookies | ✅ Keycloak clears its cookies |
| **Network Call** | ❌ None | ✅ Calls `end_session_endpoint` |

### When to Use Each

| Use Case | Button |
|----------|--------|
| Start over but stay logged in | **Reset** |
| Test the full login flow again | **Logout** |
| Switch to a different user | **Logout** |
| Clear UI state only | **Reset** |

### Behavior Difference

- **Reset**: App restarts at Discovery step. If you send a new authorization request, you will be **automatically logged in** (no password prompt) because the Keycloak SSO session is still active.

- **Logout**: App restarts at Discovery step. If you send a new authorization request, the **Keycloak login page appears** because the SSO session has been terminated.

>**NOTE**: To use the Logout feature with `id_token_hint`, make sure to include `openid` in the scope when sending the authorization request. This will return an `id_token` that is used for Single Logout.
